Aim: Use the inbuilt dataset “titanic” the dataset contains 891 rows and contains
informationabout the passengers who boarded the unfortunate titanic ship use
the seaborn liabrary to see if we can find any patterns in the data.

Requirement:
• Anaconda Installer
• Windows 10 OS
• Linux
• Jupyter Notebook

Theory:
What is Data Visualization?

Data visualization is the graphical representation of information and
data. By using visual elements like charts, graphs, and maps, data visualization
tools provide an accessible way to see and understand trends, outliers, and
patterns in data. In the world of Big Data, data visualization tools and
technologies are essential to analyze massive amounts of information and make
data-driven decisions.

The benefits of data visualization:
When considering business strategies and goals, data visualization
benefits decision makers in several ways to improve data insights. Let’s explore
seven major benefits in detail:
• Better analysis
• Quick action
• Identifying patterns
• Finding errors
• Understanding the story
• Exploring business insights
• Grasping the Latest Trends


Libraries Used:
1. Seaborn: Seaborn is a data visualization library built on top of matplotlib
and closely integrated with pandas data structures in Python.
Conclusion:
In this experiment we have studied about what is data visualization. How
data visualization helps us in different ways. We have also used the inbuilt data
set i.e., Titanic from the seaborn library to perform data visualization on it.




Survival Count - Displays how many passengers survived vs. didn’t.
Survival by Gender - Shows survival rates among males and females.
Survival by Class - Analyzes survival based on 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class.
Age Distribution - Provides insight into the age range of passengers.
Fare vs. Survival - Examines whether ticket price influenced survival.
Expected after analysis
These visualizations help identify key trends, such as:
Higher survival rates among women.
First-class passengers having a higher survival rate.
Younger and wealthier passengers had a better chance of survival.
